=head1 NAME

lei-rm - unindex a message in lei/store

=head1 SYNOPSIS

lei rm [OPTIONS] (-|--stdin)

lei rm [OPTIONS] LOCATION

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Removes message(s) and associated private metadata from lei/store
indices.  It does not affect messages stored in externals, so it's
still possible to get "removed" messages from externals in L<lei-q>
search results.

This does not remove the message from underlying git storage nor
does it remove messages from Maildir/mbox/IMAP/etc. sources.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item -

=item --stdin

Read input from standard input.  This is the default if standard
input is a pipe or regular file and there are no arguments on
the command-line.

=item -F MAIL_FORMAT

=item --in-format=MAIL_FORMAT

Message input format: C<eml>, C<mboxrd>, C<mboxcl2>, C<mboxcl>, or C<mboxo>
when reading from stdin or using one of the mbox variants.

Not necessary when using an IMAP URL, NNTP URL or Maildir.

Default: C<eml> when reading from stdin or if the file suffix
ends in C<.patch> or C<.eml>.

=item --lock=METHOD

L<mbox(5)> locking method(s) to use: C<dotlock>, C<fcntl>, C<flock> or
C<none>.

Default: fcntl,dotlock

=item -q

=item --quiet

Suppress feedback messages.

=back

=head1 CONTACT

Feedback welcome via plain-text mail to L<mailto:meta@public-inbox.org>

The mail archives are hosted at L<https://public-inbox.org/meta/> and
L<http://4uok3hntl7oi7b4uf4rtfwefqeexfzil2w6kgk2jn5z2f764irre7byd.onion/meta/>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright all contributors L<mailto:meta@public-inbox.org>

License: AGPL-3.0+ L<https://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0.txt>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<lei-store-format(5)>
