=head1 NAME

lei-import - one-time import of messages into local store

=head1 SYNOPSIS

lei import [OPTIONS] LOCATION [LOCATION...] [+L:LABEL]

lei import [OPTIONS] (--stdin|-)

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Import messages into the local storage of L<lei(1)>.  C<LOCATION> is a
source of messages: a directory (Maildir), a file, or a URL
(C<imap://>, C<imaps://>, C<nntp://>, or C<nntps://>).  URLs requiring
authentication use L<git-credential(1)> to
fill in the username and password.

For a regular file, the C<LOCATION> must have a C<E<lt>formatE<gt>:>
prefix specifying one of the following formats: C<mboxrd>,
C<mboxcl2>, C<mboxcl>, or C<mboxo>.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item -F MAIL_FORMAT

=item --in-format=MAIL_FORMAT

Message input format.  Unless messages are given on stdin, using a
format prefix with C<LOCATION> is preferred.

=item --stdin

Read messages from stdin.

=item --lock

L<mbox(5)> locking method(s) to use: C<dotlock>, C<fcntl>, C<flock> or
C<none>.

Default: fcntl,dotlock

=item +L:LABEL

Add the given C<LABEL> to all messages imported, where C<LABEL>
is an arbitrary user-defined value consisting of lowercase and digits.
See L<lei-tag(1)> for more info on labels.

For example, specifying C<+L:inbox> applies the C<inbox> label
to all messages being imported.

May be specified multiple times to apply multiple labels.

Default: none

=item +kw:KEYWORD

Apply C<KEYWORD> to all messages being imported in addition
to any per-message keywords from the store (unless C<--no-kw>
is specified).  See L<lei-tag(1)> for more info on keywords.

May be specified multiple times to apply multiple keywords.

Default: none

=item --no-kw

Don't import message keywords (or "flags" in IMAP terminology).

=item --no-incremental

Import already seen IMAP and NNTP articles.

=item --torsocks=auto|no|yes

=item --no-torsocks

Whether to wrap L<git(1)> and L<curl(1)> commands with torsocks.

Default: C<auto>

=item --proxy=PROTO://HOST[:PORT]

Use the specified proxy (e.g., C<socks5h://0:9050>).

=back

=head1 CONTACT

Feedback welcome via plain-text mail to L<mailto:meta@public-inbox.org>

The mail archives are hosted at L<https://public-inbox.org/meta/> and
L<http://4uok3hntl7oi7b4uf4rtfwefqeexfzil2w6kgk2jn5z2f764irre7byd.onion/meta/>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright all contributors L<mailto:meta@public-inbox.org>

License: AGPL-3.0+ L<https://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0.txt>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<lei-index(1)>
