=head1 NAME

lei-add-external - add inbox or external index

=head1 SYNOPSIS

lei add-external [OPTIONS] LOCATION

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Configure lei to search against an external (an inbox or external
index).  When C<LOCATION> is an existing local path, it should point
to a directory that is a C<publicinbox.$NAME.inboxdir> or
C<extindex.$NAME.topdir> value in ~/.public-inbox/config.

=head1 OPTIONS

=for comment
TODO: mention curl options?

=over

=item --boost=NUMBER

Set priority of a new or existing location.

Default: 0

=item --mirror=URL

Create C<LOCATION> by mirroring the public-inbox at C<URL>.

=item --epoch=RANGE

Restrict clones of L<public-inbox-v2-format(5)> inboxes to the
given range of epochs.  The range may be a single non-negative
integer or a (possibly open-ended) C<LOW..HIGH> range of
non-negative integers.  C<~> may be prefixed to either (or both)
integer values to represent the offset from the maximum possible
value.

For example, C<--epoch=~0> alone clones only the latest epoch,
C<--epoch=~2..> clones the three latest epochs.

Default: C<0..~0> or C<0..> or C<..~0>
(all epochs, all three examples are equivalent)

=item -v

=item --verbose

Provide more feedback on stderr.

=item -q

=item --quiet

Suppress feedback messages.

=back

=head2 MIRRORING

=over

=item --torsocks=auto|no|yes

=item --no-torsocks

Whether to wrap L<git(1)> and L<curl(1)> commands with torsocks.

Default: C<auto>

=item --inbox-version=NUM

Force a public-inbox version (must be C<1> or C<2>).

=back

The following options are passed to L<public-inbox-init(1)>:

=over

=item -j JOBS, --jobs=JOBS

=item -L LEVEL, --indexlevel=LEVEL

=back

The following options are passed to L<public-inbox-index(1)>:

=over

=item --batch-size=SIZE

=item --compact

=item -j JOBS, --jobs=JOBS

=item --max-size=SIZE

=item --sequential-shard

=item --skip-docdata

=back

=head1 FILES

The configuration for lei resides at C<$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/lei/config>.

=head1 CONTACT

Feedback welcome via plain-text mail to L<mailto:meta@public-inbox.org>

The mail archives are hosted at L<https://public-inbox.org/meta/> and
L<http://4uok3hntl7oi7b4uf4rtfwefqeexfzil2w6kgk2jn5z2f764irre7byd.onion/meta/>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2021 all contributors L<mailto:meta@public-inbox.org>

License: AGPL-3.0+ L<https://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0.txt>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<lei-forget-external(1)>, L<lei-ls-external(1)>, L<lei-import(1)>,
L<public-inbox-index(1)>, L<public-inbox-extindex(1)>,
L<public-inbox-extindex-format(5)>
