=head1 NAME

lei-blob - display a git blob, reconstructing from mail if necessary

=head1 SYNOPSIS

lei blob [OPTIONS] OID

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Display a git blob.  The blob may correspond to a message from the
local store, an existing blob in the current repository, or a
not-yet-created blob in the current repository that can be
reconstructed from a message.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item --git-dir=DIR

Specify an additional .git/ directory to scan.  This option may be
given multiple times.

=item --no-cwd

Do not look in the git repository of the current working directory.

=item --no-mail

Do not look in mail storage for C<OID>.  This is implied by
C<--oid-a>, C<--path-a>, and C<--path-b>.

=item -A OID-A, --oid-a=OID-A

=item -a PATH-A, --path-a=PATH-A

=item -b PATH-B, --path-b=PATH-B

Provide pre-image object ID, pre-image pathname, or post-image
pathname as a hint for reconstructing C<OID>.

=for comment
TODO: The below options are shared with lei-q.  Any good approaches to
not repeating the text?

=item --[no-]remote

Whether to include results requiring network access.  When local
externals are configured, C<--remote> must be explicitly passed to
enable reporting of results from remote externals.

=item --no-local

Limit operations to those requiring network access.

=item --no-external

Don't include results from externals.

=item -I LOCATION, --include=LOCATION

Include specified external in search.  This option may be given
multiple times.

=item --exclude=LOCATION

Exclude specified external from search.  This option may be given
multiple times.

=item --only=LOCATION

Use only the specified external for search.  This option may be given
multiple times, in which case the search uses only the specified set.

=item --no-import-remote

Disable the default behavior of memoizing remote messages into the
local store.

=item -v, --verbose

Provide more feedback on stderr.

=item --torsocks=auto|no|yes, --no-torsocks

Whether to wrap L<git(1)> and L<curl(1)> commands with torsocks.

Default: C<auto>

=back

=head1 CONTACT

Feedback welcome via plain-text mail to L<mailto:meta@public-inbox.org>

The mail archives are hosted at L<https://public-inbox.org/meta/> and
L<http://4uok3hntl7oi7b4uf4rtfwefqeexfzil2w6kgk2jn5z2f764irre7byd.onion/meta/>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2021 all contributors L<mailto:meta@public-inbox.org>

License: AGPL-3.0+ L<https://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0.txt>


=head1 SEE ALSO

L<lei-add-external(1)>
