=head1 NAME

public-inbox-purge - erase messages from a public inbox and its history

=head1 SYNOPSIS

	# requires ~/.public-inbox/config
	public-inbox-purge --all </path/to/message-to-purge

	# for testing with unconfigured inboxes:
	public-inbox-purge $INBOX_DIR </path/to/message-to-purge

=head1 DESCRIPTION

public-inbox-purge allows removing entire messages in a given
inbox from history.  It is only intended as a last resort, as it
will cause discontiguous git history and draw more attention to
the sensitive data in mirrors.

For removing spam, L<public-inbox-learn(1)> is preferable as it
preserves contiguous git history.

For editing sensitive information out of messages, consider
L<public-inbox-edit(1)>, instead, but keep in mind it still
leads to discontiguous git history.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item --all

Purge the message in all inboxes configured in ~/.public-inbox/config.
This is an alternative to specifying individual inboxes directories
on the command-line.

=back

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over 8

=item PI_CONFIG

The default config file, normally "~/.public-inbox/config".
See L<public-inbox-config(5)>

=back

=head1 LIMITATIONS

Only L<public-inbox-v2-format(5)> inboxes are supported.

This is safe to run while normal inbox writing tools
(L<public-inbox-mda(1)>, L<public-inbox-watch(1)>,
L<public-inbox-learn(1)>) are active.

Running this in parallel with L<public-inbox-xcpdb(1)> or
C<"public-inbox-index --reindex"> can lead to errors or
purged data remaining indexed.

Incremental L<public-inbox-index(1)> (without C<--reindex>)
is fine.

Keep in mind this is a last resort, as it will be disruptive
to anyone using L<git(1)> to mirror the inbox being purged.

=head1 CONTACT

Feedback welcome via plain-text mail to L<mailto:meta@public-inbox.org>

The mail archives are hosted at L<https://public-inbox.org/meta/> and
L<http://4uok3hntl7oi7b4uf4rtfwefqeexfzil2w6kgk2jn5z2f764irre7byd.onion/meta/>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2019-2021 all contributors L<mailto:meta@public-inbox.org>

License: AGPL-3.0+ L<https://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0.txt>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<public-inbox-edit(1)>, L<public-inbox-learn(1)>
