=head1 NAME

public-inbox-config - public-inbox config file description

=head1 SYNOPSIS

~/.public-inbox/config

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The public-inbox config file is parseable by L<git-config(1)>.
This is a global configuration file for mapping/discovering
all public-inboxes used by a particular user.

=head1 CONFIGURATION FILE

=head2 EXAMPLE

	[publicinbox "test"]
		inboxdir = /home/user/path/to/test.git
		; multiple addresses are supported
		address = test@example.com
		; address = alternate@example.com
		url = http://example.com/test
		newsgroup = inbox.test

		; backwards compatibility with public-inbox pre-1.2.0,
		; "inboxdir" takes precedence over "mainrepo"
		mainrepo = /home/user/path/to/test.git

=head2 VARIABLES

=over 8

=item publicinbox.<name>.address

The email address of the public-inbox.  May be specified
more than once for merging multiple mailing lists (or migrating
to new addresses).  This must be specified at least once,
the first value will be considered the primary address for
informational purposes.

Default: none, required

=item publicinbox.<name>.inboxdir

The absolute path to the directory which hosts the
public-inbox.  This must be specified once.

This was previously known as "mainrepo", which remains supported,
but "inboxdir" takes precedence.

Default: none, required

=item publicinbox.<name>.url

The primary URL for hosting the HTTP/HTTPS archives.
Additional HTTP/HTTPS URLs may be specified via
C<$GIT_DIR/cloneurl> as documented in L<gitweb(1)>

Default: none, optional

=item publicinbox.<name>.newsgroup

The NNTP group name for use with L<public-inbox-nntpd(1)>.  This
may be any newsgroup name with hierarchies delimited by C<.>.
For example, the newsgroup for L<mailto:meta@public-inbox.org>
is: C<inbox.comp.mail.public-inbox.meta>

It also configures the folder hierarchy used by L<public-inbox-imapd(1)>
as well as L<public-inbox-pop3d(1)>

Omitting this for a given inbox will prevent the inbox from
being served by L<public-inbox-nntpd(1)>,
L<public-inbox-imapd(1)>, and/or L<public-inbox-pop3d(1)>

Default: none, optional

=item publicinbox.<name>.watch

See L<public-inbox-watch(1)>

=item publicinbox.<name>.watchheader

See L<public-inbox-watch(1)>

=item publicinbox.<name>.listid

The L<rfc2919|https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2919> header without
angle brackets for L<public-inbox-mda(1)> deliveries and
L<public-inbox-watch(1)>.

For public-inbox-watch users, this is a shortcut for specifying
C<publicinbox.$NAME.watchheader=List-Id:E<lt>foo.example.comE<gt>>

For public-inbox-mda users, this may be used to avoid recipient
matching via C<ORIGINAL_RECIPIENT> environment variable.

This may be specified multiple times for merging multiple mailing
lists into a single public-inbox, only one C<List-Id> header
needs to match.

Default: none

=item publicinbox.<name>.imapmirror

This may be the full IMAP URL of an independently-run IMAP mirror.

Default: none

=item publicinbox.<name>.nntpmirror

This may be the full NNTP URL of an independently-run mirror.
For example, the https://public-inbox.org/meta/ inbox is
mirrored by Gmane at
C<nntp://news.gmane.io/gmane.mail.public-inbox.general>

Default: none

=item publicinbox.<name>.indexlevel

The indexing level for L<public-inbox-index(1)>

C<basic> only requires L<DBD::SQLite(3pm)> and provides all
NNTP functionality along with thread-awareness in the WWW
interface.

C<medium> requires L<Search::Xapian(3pm)> to provide full-text
term search functionality in the WWW UI.

C<full> also includes positional information used by Xapian to
allow for searching for phrases using quoted text.
(e.g. C<"looking for a complete sentence">)

Default: C<full>

=item publicinbox.<name>.boost

Control indexing order for L<public-inbox-extindex(1)>, with ties
broken by config file order.  This only affects indexing and does
not affect messages which are already indexed.

Default: C<0>

=item publicinbox.<name>.indexSequentialShard

See L<public-inbox-index(1)/publicInbox.indexSequentialShard>

=item publicinbox.<name>.httpbackendmax

If a digit, the maximum number of parallel
L<git-http-backend(1)> processes to allow for cloning this
particular inbox.

If an alphanumeric value starting with a lowercase alphabetic
character is specified, the inbox will use a L</NAMED LIMITER>
which can be shared by multiple inboxes.

Default: 32 (using a default limiter shared by all inboxes)

=item publicinbox.<name>.coderepo

The nickname of a "coderepo" section associated with the inbox.
May be specified more than once for M:N mapping of code repos to
inboxes.  If enabled, diff hunk headers in patch emails will
link to the line numbers of blobs.

Default: none

=item publicinbox.<name>.replyto

May be used to control how reply instructions in the PSGI
interface are displayed.

":none=dead inbox" may be specified to denote an inactive list
("dead inbox" may be replaced with another phrase).

A list of comma-delimited email addresses may be specified.
This can be useful for dedicated inboxes for bot emails, but
discussion happens on a separate mailing list/inbox.

Mirrors of existing centralized mailing lists may use ":list"
here to redirect mail only to the configured inbox address.
The use of ":list" is discouraged for new mailing lists, as it
leads to centralization.

Default: :all

=item publicinbox.css

The local path name of a CSS file for the PSGI web interface.
May contain the attributes "media", "title" and "href" which match
the associated attributes of the HTML <style> tag.
"href" may be specified to point to the URL of an remote CSS file
and the path may be "/dev/null" or any empty file.
Multiple files may be specified and will be included in the
order specified.

=item publicinboxmda.spamcheck

This may be set to C<none> to disable the use of SpamAssassin
L<spamc(1)> for filtering spam before it is imported into git
history.  Other spam filtering backends may be supported in
the future.

Default: spamc

=item publicinboxwatch.spamcheck

See L<public-inbox-watch(1)>

=item publicinboxwatch.watchspam

See L<public-inbox-watch(1)>

=item publicinbox.imapserver

Set this to point to the hostname(s) of the L<public-inbox-imapd(1)>
instance.  This is used to advertise the existence of the IMAP
endpoint in the L<PublicInbox::WWW> HTML interface.

Default: none

=item publicinbox.nntpserver

Same as C<publicinbox.imapserver>, but for the hostname(s) of the
L<public-inbox-nntpd(1)> instance.

Default: none

=item publicinbox.pop3state

See L<public-inbox-pop3d(1)/publicinbox.pop3state>

=item publicinbox.<name>.feedmax

The size of an Atom feed for the inbox.  If specified more than
once, only the last value is used.  Invalid values (<= 0) will
be treated as the default value.

Default: 25

=item publicinbox.<name>.hide

A comma-delimited list of listings to hide the inbox from.

Valid values are currently C<www> and C<manifest>.

Default: none

=item coderepo.<nick>.dir

The path to a git repository for "publicinbox.<name>.coderepo"

=item coderepo.<nick>.cgitUrl

The URL of the cgit instance associated with the coderepo.

Default: none

=item publicinbox.cgitrc

A path to a L<cgitrc(5)> file.  "repo.url" directives in the cgitrc
will be mapped to the nickname of a coderepo (without trailing slash),
and "repo.path" directives map to "coderepo.<nick>.dir".
Use of this directive allows admins of existing cgit installations
to skip declaring coderepo sections and map inboxes directly to
code repositories known to cgit.

Macro expansion (e.g. C<$HTTP_HOST>) is not yet supported.

=item publicinbox.cgitbin

A path to the C<cgit.cgi> executable.  The L<PublicInbox::WWW>
interface can spawn cgit as a fallback if the publicinbox.cgitrc
directive is configured.

Default: /var/www/htdocs/cgit/cgit.cgi or /usr/lib/cgit/cgit.cgi

=item publicinbox.cgitdata

A path to the data directory used by cgit for storing static files.
Typically guessed based the location of C<cgit.cgi> (from
C<publicinbox.cgitbin>, but may be overridden.

Default: basename of C<publicinbox.cgitbin>, /var/www/htdocs/cgit/
or /usr/share/cgit/

=item publicinbox.mailEditor

See L<public-inbox-edit(1)>

=item publicinbox.indexMaxSize
=item publicinbox.indexBatchSize
=item publicinbox.indexSequentialShard

See L<public-inbox-index(1)>

=item publicinbox.wwwlisting

Enable a HTML listing style when the root path of the URL '/' is accessed.
Valid values are:

=over 8

=item * all
- Show all inboxes

=item * 404
- Return a 404 page.  This is useful to allow customization with
L<Plack::App::Cascade(3pm)>

=item * match=domain
- Only show inboxes with URLs which belong to the domain of the HTTP request

=for comment
TODO support showing cgit listing

=back

Default: C<404>

=item publicinbox.grokmanifest

Controls the generation of a grokmirror-compatible gzipped JSON file
at the top-level of the PSGI interface.  You generally do not need to
change this from the default.

Valid values are:

=over 8

=item * match=domain
- Only include inboxes with URLs which belong to the domain of
the HTTP request.  This is compatible with virtual hosting where
several domains come from the same host.

=item * all
- All inboxes are present in C<manifest.js.gz>, regardless of domain.
Only use this if you're serving HTTP requests in a domain-agnostic manner.

=item * 404
- C<manifest.js.gz> will only contain an empty JSON array.
This does NOT affect C<$INBOX_URL/manifest.js.gz>, which will
always contain all git repos used by the inbox at C<$INBOX_URL>

=back

Default: C<match=domain>

=item publicinbox.<name>.obfuscate

Whether to obfuscate email addresses in the L<PublicInbox::WWW> HTML
interface.

Default: false

=item publicinbox.noObfuscate

A space-delimited list of well-known addresses and domains that should
not be obfuscated when C<publicinbox.$NAME.obfuscate> is true (e.g.,
C<public@example.com> and C<@example.com>).  This may be specified
more than once, in which case the values are merged.

Default: none

=item extindex.<name>.topdir

The directory of an external index.  See
L<public-inbox-extindex(1)> for more details.

=item extindex.<name>.url

Identical to L</publicinbox.E<lt>nameE<gt>.url>, but for
external indices

=item extindex.<name>.coderepo

Identical to L</publicinbox.E<lt>nameE<gt>.coderepo>, but for
external indices.  Code repos may be freely associated with
any number of public inboxes and external indices.

=back

=head2 NAMED LIMITER (PSGI)

Named limiters are useful for preventing large inboxes from
monopolizing (or overloading) the server.  Since serving git
clones (via L<git-http-backend(1)> can be memory-intensive for
large inboxes, it makes sense to put large inboxes on a named
limiter with a low max value; while smaller inboxes can use
the default limiter.

C<RLIMIT_*> keys may be set to enforce resource limits for
a particular limiter (L<BSD::Resource(3pm)> is required).

Default named-limiters are prefixed with "-".  Currently,
the "-cgit" named limiter is reserved for instances spawning
cgit via C<publicinbox.cgitrc>

=over 8

=item publicinboxlimiter.<name>.max

The maximum number of parallel processes for the given limiter.

=item publicinboxlimiter.<name>.rlimitCore

=item publicinboxlimiter.<name>.rlimitCPU

=item publicinboxlimiter.<name>.rlimitData

The maximum core size, CPU time, or data size processes run with the
given limiter will use.  This may be comma-separated to distinguish
soft and hard limits.  The word "INFINITY" is accepted as the
RLIM_INFINITY constant (if supported by your OS).

See L<setrlimit(2)> for more info on the behavior of RLIMIT_CORE,
RLIMIT_CPU, and RLIMIT_DATA for you operating system.

=back

=head3 EXAMPLE WITH NAMED LIMITERS

	; big inboxes which require lots of memory to clone:
	[publicinbox "big1"]
		inboxdir = /path/to/big1
		address = big1@example.com
		httpbackendmax = big
	[publicinbox "big2"]
		inboxdir = /path/to/big2
		address = big2@example.com
		httpbackendmax = big

	; tiny inboxes which are easily cloned:
	[publicinbox "tiny1"]
		inboxdir = /path/to/tiny1
		address = tiny1@example.com
	[publicinbox "tiny2"]
		inboxdir = /path/to/tiny2
		address = tiny2@example.com

	[publicinboxlimiter "big"]
		max = 4

In the above example, the "big1" and "big2" are limited to four
parallel L<git-http-backend(1)> processes between them.

However, "tiny1" and "tiny2" will share the default limiter
which means there can be 32 L<git-http-backend(1)> processes
between them.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over 8

=item PI_CONFIG

Used to override the default "~/.public-inbox/config" value.

=back

=head1 CONTACT

Feedback welcome via plain-text mail to L<mailto:meta@public-inbox.org>

The mail archives are hosted at L<https://public-inbox.org/meta/> and
L<http://4uok3hntl7oi7b4uf4rtfwefqeexfzil2w6kgk2jn5z2f764irre7byd.onion/meta/>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright all contributors L<mailto:meta@public-inbox.org>

License: AGPL-3.0+ L<https://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0.txt>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<git(1)>, L<git-config(1)>, L<public-inbox-daemon(8)>,
L<public-inbox-mda(1)>, L<public-inbox-watch(1)>,
L<grokmirror|https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/utils/grokmirror/grokmirror.git>
