=head1 NAME

public-inbox-convert - convert v1 inboxes to v2

=head1 SYNOPSIS

	public-inbox-convert [OPTIONS] OLD_DIR NEW_DIR

=head1 DESCRIPTION

public-inbox-convert copies the contents of an old "v1" inbox
into a new "v2" inbox.  It makes no changes to the old inbox
and users are expected to update the "inboxdir" path in
L<public-inbox-config(5)> to point to the path of NEW_DIR
once they are satisfied with the conversion.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item --no-index

Disables Xapian and overview DB indexing on the new inbox.
By default, public-inbox-convert creates a new index in the
v2 inbox and indexes all existing messages, a lengthy
operation for large inboxes.

=item -j JOBS

=item --jobs=JOBS

Control the number of indexing jobs and Xapian shards of the v2
inbox.  By default, this is the detected CPU count but capped
at 4 due to various bottlenecks.  The number of Xapian shards
will be 1 less than the JOBS value, since there is a single
process which distributes work to the Xapian shards.

=item -L LEVEL, --index-level=LEVEL

=item -c, --compact

=item -v, --verbose

=item --no-fsync

=item --sequential-shard

=item --batch-size=BYTES

=item --max-size=BYTES

These options affect indexing.  They have no effect if
L</--no-index> is specified

See L<public-inbox-index(1)> for a description of these options.

=back

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over 8

=item PI_CONFIG

The default config file, normally "~/.public-inbox/config".
See L<public-inbox-config(5)>

=back

=head1 UPGRADING

Editing "~/.public-inbox/config" (or whatever C<PI_CONFIG> is
set to) will be required to start using the new directory.

=head1 BUGS

Writes from L<public-inbox-mda(1)> or L<git-fetch(1)> to the v1
inbox which occur after the start of the conversion will not
be picked up in the v2 inbox.

Users of L<public-inbox-watch(1)> do not have to worry about
this.  They only need to update the config file to point to the
v2 inbox, send C<SIGHUP> public-inbox-watch process to reload
the config file, and then C<SIGUSR1> to rescan existing
Maildirs.

=head1 CONTACT

Feedback welcome via plain-text mail to L<mailto:meta@public-inbox.org>

The mail archives are hosted at L<https://public-inbox.org/meta/> and
L<http://4uok3hntl7oi7b4uf4rtfwefqeexfzil2w6kgk2jn5z2f764irre7byd.onion/meta/>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2013-2021 all contributors L<mailto:meta@public-inbox.org>

License: AGPL-3.0+ L<https://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0.txt>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<public-inbox-init(1)>, L<public-inbox-index(1)>, L<public-inbox-config(5)>,
L<public-inbox-v1-format(5)>, L<public-inbox-v2-format(5)>
