=head1 NAME

public-inbox-daemon - common usage for public-inbox network daemons

=head1 SYNOPSIS

	public-inbox-netd
	public-inbox-httpd
	public-inbox-imapd
	public-inbox-nntpd
	public-inbox-pop3d

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This manual describes common options and behavior for
public-inbox network daemons.  Network daemons for public-inbox
provide read-only IMAP, HTTP, NNTP and POP3 access to public-inboxes.
Write access to a public-inbox will never be required to run these.

These daemons are implemented with a common core using
non-blocking sockets and optimized for fairness; even with
thousands of connected clients over slow links.

They also provide graceful shutdown/upgrade support to avoid
breaking existing connections during software upgrades.

These daemons may also utilize multiple pre-forked worker
processes to take advantage of multiple CPUs.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item -l [PROTOCOL://]ADDRESS[?opt1=val1,opt2=val2]

=item --listen [PROTOCOL://]ADDRESS[?opt1=val1,opt2=val2]

This takes an absolute path to a Unix socket or HOST:PORT
to listen on.  For example, to listen to TCP connections on
port 119, use: C<-l 0.0.0.0:119>.  This may also point to
a Unix socket (C<-l /path/to/http.sock>) for a reverse proxy
like L<nginx(8)> to use.

May be specified multiple times to allow listening on multiple
sockets.

Unless per-listener options are used (required for
L<public-inbox-netd(1)>), this does not need to be specified at
all if relying on L<systemd.socket(5)> or similar,

Per-listener options may be specified after C<?> as C<KEY=VALUE>
pairs delimited by C<,>.  See L<public-inbox-netd(1)> for
documentation on the C<cert=>, C<key=>, C<env.NAME=VALUE>,
C<out=>, C<err=>, and C<psgi=> options available.

Default: server-dependent unless socket activation is used with
L<systemd(1)> or similar (see L<systemd.socket(5)>).

=item -1

=item --stdout PATH

Specify an appendable path to redirect stdout descriptor (1) to.
Using this is preferable to setting up the redirect externally
(e.g. E<gt>E<gt>/path/to/log in shell) since it allows
SIGUSR1 to be handled (see L<SIGNALS/SIGNALS> below).

C<out=> may also be specified on a per-listener basis.

Default: /dev/null with C<--daemonize>, inherited otherwise

=item -2 PATH

=item --stderr PATH

Like C<--stdout>, but for the stderr descriptor (2).

C<err=> may also be specified on a per-listener basis.

Default: /dev/null with C<--daemonize>, inherited otherwise

=item -W

=item --worker-processes

Set the number of worker processes.

Normally, this should match the number of CPUs on the system to
take full advantage of the hardware.  However, users of
memory-constrained systems may want to lower this.

Setting this to zero (C<-W0>) disables the master/worker split;
saving some memory but removing the ability to use SIGTTIN
to increase worker processes or have the worker restarted by
the master on crashes.

Default: 1

=item --cert /path/to/cert

The default TLS certificate for HTTPS, IMAPS, NNTPS, POP3S and/or STARTTLS
support if the C<cert> option is not given with C<--listen>.

Well-known TCP ports automatically get TLS or STARTTLS support
If using systemd-compatible socket activation and a TCP listener
on port well-known ports (563 is inherited, it is automatically
NNTPS when this option is given.  When a listener on port 119 is
inherited and this option is given, it automatically gets
STARTTLS support.

=item --key /path/to/key

The default TLS certificate key for the default C<--cert> or
per-listener C<cert=> option.  The private key may be
concatenated into the path used by the cert, in which case this
option is not needed.

=back

=head1 SIGNALS

Most of our signal handling behavior is copied from L<nginx(8)>
and/or L<starman(1)>; so it is possible to reuse common scripts
for managing them.

=over 8

=item SIGUSR1

Reopens log files pointed to by --stdout and --stderr options.

=item SIGUSR2

Spawn a new process with the intention to replace the running one.
See L</UPGRADING> below.

=item SIGHUP

Reload config files associated with the process.
(Note: broken for L<public-inbox-httpd(1)> only in E<lt>= 1.6)

=item SIGTTIN

Increase the number of running workers processes by one.

=item SIGTTOU

Decrease the number of running worker processes by one.

=item SIGWINCH

Stop all running worker processes.   SIGHUP or SIGTTIN
may be used to restart workers.

=item SIGQUIT

Gracefully terminate the running process.

=back

SIGTTOU, SIGTTIN, SIGWINCH all have no effect when worker
processes are disabled with C<-W0> on the command-line.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over 8

=item PI_CONFIG

The default config file, normally "~/.public-inbox/config".
See L<public-inbox-config(5)>

=item LISTEN_FDS, LISTEN_PID

Used by systemd (and compatible) installations for socket
activation.  See L<systemd.socket(5)> and L<sd_listen_fds(3)>.

=item PERL_INLINE_DIRECTORY

Pointing this to point to a writable directory enables the use
of L<Inline> and L<Inline::C> extensions which may provide
platform-specific performance improvements.  Currently, this
enables the use of L<vfork(2)> which speeds up subprocess
spawning with the Linux kernel.

public-inbox will never enable L<Inline::C> automatically without
this environment variable set or C<~/.cache/public-inbox/inline-c>
created by a user. See L<Inline> and L<Inline::C> for more details.

=back

=head1 UPGRADING

There are two ways to upgrade a running process.

Users of process management systems with socket activation
(L<systemd(1)> or similar) may rely on multiple instances For
systemd, this means using two (or more) '@' instances for each
service (e.g. C<SERVICENAME@INSTANCE>) as documented in
L<systemd.unit(5)>.

Users of traditional SysV init may use SIGUSR2 to spawn
a replacement process and gracefully terminate the old
process using SIGQUIT.

In either case, the old process will not truncate running
responses; so responses to expensive requests do not get
interrupted and lost.

=head1 CONTACT

Feedback welcome via plain-text mail to L<mailto:meta@public-inbox.org>

The mail archives are hosted at L<https://public-inbox.org/meta/> and
L<http://4uok3hntl7oi7b4uf4rtfwefqeexfzil2w6kgk2jn5z2f764irre7byd.onion/meta/>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright all contributors L<mailto:meta@public-inbox.org>

License: AGPL-3.0+ L<https://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0.txt>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<public-inbox-httpd(1)>, L<public-inbox-imapd(1)>,
L<public-inbox-nntpd(1)>, L<public-inbox-pop3d(1)>, L<public-inbox-netd(1)>
