=head1 NAME

public-inbox-clone - "git clone --mirror" wrapper

=head1 SYNOPSIS

public-inbox-clone INBOX_URL [INBOX_DIR]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

public-inbox-clone is a wrapper around C<git clone --mirror> for
making the initial clone of a remote HTTP(S) public-inbox.  It
allows cloning multi-epoch v2 inboxes with a single command and
zero configuration.

It does not run L<public-inbox-init(1)> nor
L<public-inbox-index(1)>.  Those commands must be run separately
if serving/searching the mirror is required.  As-is,
public-inbox-clone is suitable for creating a git-only backup.

public-inbox-clone creates a Makefile with handy targets to update the
inbox once indexed.  This Makefile may be edited by the user; it will
not be rewritten by L<public-inbox-fetch(1)> unless it is removed
completely.

public-inbox-clone does not use nor require any extra
configuration files (not even C<~/.public-inbox/config>).

L<public-inbox-fetch(1)> may be used to keep C<INBOX_DIR>
up-to-date.

For v2 inboxes, it will create a C<$INBOX_DIR/manifest.js.gz>
file to speed up subsequent L<public-inbox-fetch(1)>.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item --epoch=RANGE

Restrict clones of L<public-inbox-v2-format(5)> inboxes to the
given range of epochs.  The range may be a single non-negative
integer or a (possibly open-ended) C<LOW..HIGH> range of
non-negative integers.  C<~> may be prefixed to either (or both)
integer values to represent the offset from the maximum possible
value.

For example, C<--epoch=~0> alone clones only the latest epoch,
C<--epoch=~2..> clones the three latest epochs.

Default: C<0..~0> or C<0..> or C<..~0>
(all epochs, all three examples are equivalent)

=item -q

=item --quiet

Quiets down progress messages, also passed to L<git-fetch(1)>.

=item -v

=item --verbose

Increases verbosity, also passed to L<git-fetch(1)>.

=item --torsocks=auto|no|yes

=item --no-torsocks

Whether to wrap L<git(1)> and L<curl(1)> commands with torsocks.

Default: C<auto>

=back

=head1 CONTACT

Feedback welcome via plain-text mail to L<mailto:meta@public-inbox.org>

The mail archives are hosted at L<https://public-inbox.org/meta/> and
L<http://4uok3hntl7oi7b4uf4rtfwefqeexfzil2w6kgk2jn5z2f764irre7byd.onion/meta/>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright all contributors L<mailto:meta@public-inbox.org>

License: AGPL-3.0+ L<https://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0.txt>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<public-inbox-fetch(1)>, L<public-inbox-init(1)>, L<public-inbox-index(1)>
